in 965 ad Odin king of Asgard wages war
against the frost giants of Jotunheim
and their leader Luffy to prevent them
from conquering the nine realms
starting with Earth the Asgardian
warriors defeat the frost giants and
seize the source of their power the
casket of ancient winters in the present
Odin's son Thor prepares to ascend to
the throne of Asgard but is interrupted
when frost giants attempt to retrieve
the casket against Odin's order Thor
travels to Jotunheim to confront Luffy
accompanied by his brother Loki
childhood friend SIF and the warriors
three fall stag Fandral and Hogan a
battle ensues until Odin intervenes to
save the Asgardians destroying the
fragile truce between the two races for
Thor's arrogance Odin strips his son of
his godly power and exile him to earth
as a mortal accompanied by his hammer
mill near now protected by an
enchantment that allows only the worthy
to wield it
Thor lands in New Mexico where
astrophysicist dr. Jane Foster
her assistant Darcy Lewis and mentor dr.
Erik Selvig find him the local populace
finds Mele near which SHIELD agent Phil
Coulson soon commandeers before forcibly
acquiring Jane's data about the wormhole
that delivered Thor to earth
Thor having discovered meal nears nearby
location seeks to retrieve it from the
facility that shield quickly constructed
but he finds himself unable to lift it
and is captured with selvig's help he is
freed and resigns himself to exile on
earth as he develops a romance with Jane
loki discovers that he has actually lafi
son adopted by odin after the war ended
a weary odin falls into the deep Odin
sleep to recover his strength
Loki seizes the throne in Odin's dead
and offers lafi the chance to kill Odin
and retrieve the casket SIF and the
Warriors three unhappy with Loki's rule
attempt to return Thor from exile
convincing Heimdall gatekeeper of the
Bifrost the means of travelling between
worlds to allow them passage to earth
aware of their plan Loki sends the
destroyer a seemingly indestructible
automaton to pursue them and kill Thor
the warriors find Thor but the Destroyer
attacks and defeats them prompting Thor
to offer himself instead struck by the
destroyer and near death
Thor's sacrifice proves him worthy to
wield Mjolnir the hammer returns to him
restoring his powers and enabling him to
defeat the destroyer
kissing Jane goodbye and vowing to
return he and his fellow as Guardians
leave to confront Loki in Asgard
Loki betrays and kills lafi
revealing his true plan to use la fees
attempt on Odin's life as an excuse to
destroy Jotunheim with the Bifrost
bridge thus proving himself worthy to
his adoptive father Thor arrives and
fights Loki before destroying the
Bifrost bridge to stop Loki's plan
stranding himself in Asgard Odin awakens
and prevents the brothers from falling
into the abyss created in the wake of
the bridges destruction but Loki allows
himself to fall when Odin rejects his
pleas for approval Thor makes amends
with Odin and admitting he is not ready
to be king while on earth Jane and her
team search for a way to open a portal
to Asgard
in a post-credits scene Selvig has been
taken to a shield facility where Nick
Fury opens a briefcase and asks him to
study a mysterious cube shaped object
which fury says may hold untold power an
invisible Loki prompts Elva to agree and
he does
you